In this video we'll start organizing the cafe pro theme as if we're building it for a photographer with
can use the site to organize images in a specific way by planning how the site needs to arrange and
You'll have a roadmap for how to create your custom post type by going through this process you'll see
No matter what theme you are using WordPress can manage content however the client or web site visitor
needs it to be organize.
Let's start by taking a look at a test site I've made on my local development environment.
The WP dev course to WordPress installation.
It's a Genesys site with the cafe theme which should look pretty familiar to you here but it's not on
our students sandbox area.
I've been playing with it in my local environment to show you how you can set up custom post types using
I'll be logging back in to the student sandbox area and going through the steps with you so that you
like.
We're going to be setting this up as if we're doing it for a photographer and as we scroll down on the
add one of them I activated with an image and some copy and a link to a photo type.
I made a custom post type called photographs and I made a taxonomy called Photo types.
We're basically going to be categorizing the photographer's photographs into four different categories.
So I just clicked that button that led me to the category page or the custom post type page called dogs.
You can see that it's W.P. of course to slash photo underscore type and then slash.
Dogs and dogs is the name of the custom taxonomy.
But if you look at the display page what I've got is a certain individual post which is one of the photographs
I've got a photograph of a dog some content here and you can see down on the left hand side.
It's filed under dogs.
This is the page we're looking at right now.
And on the right hand side it's tagged with a couple of tags.
So I've got three posts here so far each of them is clickable through the title or the link.
width image as well as a footer that comes up with some data about the image itself.
Now these are using custom fields.
We haven't gone over custom fields very much but if you remember in a previous chapter in the author
pro theme there were some custom fields that the user could use to define different types of information
In this case we've got custom fields for the type of camera the type of lens and the date the photograph
So that was just a small tour of how I've set up custom post types within the cafe pro theme using custom
Now let's go back and start setting it up ourselves in the student's sandbox.
Go ahead and log into the student's sandbox.
Make sure you're in the cafe pro theme site that we've been working on and it'd be a good idea to open
Inside the student's sandbox in the cafe pro theme WordPress dashboard.
Scroll down just a little bit and find custom press and click activate.
Great now that that plugin is activated you'll see a toolbar item on the left hand side called Custom
settings for the plug in itself.
We won't be using it but it also enables you to import and export custom both types from site to site.
Another thing you'll notice is an additional menu item on the left side called photographs with some
The posts button add new categories and tags.
If you look at photographs again we've got to add a new photograph.
We have a standard tags taxonomy and then a custom photo types taxonomy which is just like categories
new sandbox site when you activated the custom press plug in all the data was already in the database
from the 30 posts that I created and I connected 30 media images as well with 4 different categories
called Photo types in the categories of still life people.
Landscape and dogs go ahead and open up under photographs click photographs so we get a list of posts
You'll see that there's 30 items and they're all titles and they have a little bit of information across
Follow along as I show you how I created this post type as well as some other items.
If you look under can custom press content types.
We've got a photograph post type as well as a taxonomies tab and custom fields that I'll be customizing
for you.
And I've already created it's already live inside of your sandbox site.
So if you have the custom press content type screen open follow along as I show you how I created the
editing post type screen you can see that I've used photograph up here.
Now I'll cut to the footage where I created this post type itself.
So let's use the word photograph right here as the post type and once you name it you can't change it
It doesn't matter if you capitalize it or not.
It'll change it to all lowercase.
That's the post editors so that we can add content to this custom post type.
We're going to be using the featured image so we'll click thumbnail and we'll also allow an excerpt
for a new post and then we can scroll down and leave the rest unchecked.
But we're going to be assigning a custom category to this as a separate taxonomy so we'll leave categories
unchecked as we go down leave the default settings for capability type and leave make sure that map
medicate abilities is checked as true and as we go down we're going to be choosing how WordPress displays
So we have photographs usually plural for the name the singular name is going to be photograph and new
and add new item should be add new photograph.
And I'm just going to keep going down and I've done this before you can see that it's filling in the
There's a little bit of text gives you some a suggestion about what the default is.
And so you can define it for your own post type name so it will be new photograph here view photograph
if we want to search photographs you can see that it's usually plural
no photographs found no photographs found in trash.
This one we can see that it's not used on nonhierarchical types which is what this is but you can put
as we go down the left hand column.
hand side.
I'm just going to place it here below.
the default icon for posts right here.
It'll be public so we leave that as true.
These aren't changeable right now since it's public will go down to the next election.
This isn't going to be a hierarchical post type but when we do go up and choose a taxonomy for it we're
for these photographs if we need to.
So I'll leave this as false.
It has an archive.
True.
And I'd like it to be called photographs also I'll have to rewrite as true and just leave this as the
default.
And in terms of IP mask and point mask this is more advanced but we can just leave none checked leave
True.
And this export import.
And then click Add post type and now by doing that I've created a post type called photograph and therefore
Basically a category as well as a series of custom fields.
Let's click the next tab across called taxonomies and we're going to create a taxonomy for our custom.
So click add taxonomy and we've got again a two column lay out of a whole bunch of different settings
for this custom taxonomy.
It's the same type of thing.
So use photo underscore type and we're going to make this available for the photograph.
usually plural so we need this one to be photo types and the singular one is called photo type and knew
would be add new photo type and new photo type.
This is what it will say when we want to edit the photo type update photo type search photo types.
Usually it's a plural.
This one will be popular photo types.
This one is all photo types.
This be parent photo type and with a colon this will be parent photo type with a colon add or remove.
Now this isn't used on hierarchical taxonomies.
We are going to define this taxonomy as a hierarchical one.
blank.
And I'm also leaving choose from most used blank because this is going to be a hierarchical taxonomy
basically similar to categories almost finished.
Now we can click true for show admen column.
It'll show us information about each of our taxonomies if we like.
We want to leave it public and then these are just automatically selected for us.
We're going to make this true so that our custom taxonomy here is like categories not like tags.
So we can leave the rest the same as the default rewrite it needs to be true EPM mass can be none.
And then add taxonomy type
one more setting inside of custom fields.
We're going to add a custom field for our post type.
Now we'll just create three different custom fields one for the type of camera and I found using this
It's nice to have a colon at the end of the title because the display is a little bit easier.
So if we look over at my example here remember in our single post if we scroll down it shows some image
So camer a colon and then whatever the photographer filled in inside the pots and then lands and then
So use camera Colan it doesn't necessarily have to be required.
I think I did require the type of camera but then leave the lens and the date open leave the default
Now this one I have used a radio button with two different cameras so you can put anything you want
So two types of cameras one or the other makes it easy for the user to choose from the two.
And we're going to be using this custom field in one of our post types and it's the photograph posts
So now we'll do lens.
Colin you don't can make that non required because obviously if you're going to use the iPhone you might
We can leave it as a text box or they can fill in whatever lens and we need to then add it to this post
And that's our last step
last one.
Just in case the person is adding a bunch of photographs into their web site and it's all on a certain
so that the photograph was taken on a certain date.
And in this way we can use any of these elections.
And let's experiment with the date picker.
And so this is good.
For us it's usually like this in the USA.
So I select that one and go down and select for this custom post type again and click add custom field
in this video.
You've followed along with the set up steps for creating a certain custom post type called photographs
using the custom press plugin since you activated the plug in however I've populated your Sandbach site
your content.
That way you won't have to create each of the posts yourself in the next video.
You'll start by creating a few new posts for your custom post type then you'll customize the display
Let's do it.